---
title: "Thoughts on Startups in Southeast Asia"
image: /photos/cambodia/impact3.jpg
categories: ["Incubators"]
date: 2019-01-10
description: "We're in Phnom Penh to visit Impacthub Cambodia"
draft: true
---



Here are my observations as a startup founder in **Southeast Asia**

* 2011 - Singapore renovates **Block 71** to be the startup hub in Singapore.

* 2014 - Vietnam begins its national startup program in Hanoi as **Vietnam Silicon Valley**. Malaysia begins its own as **MAGIC** in Cyberjaya.

* 2015 - I began in the startup world in 2015 by pitching my idea for a new economic system, after my friend got **incubation** in 2014 for his own startup which was a mere web scraping tool that scraped ecommerce prices into his platform. My friend’s startup failed as I expected and it caused a **loss **for the incubator. My startup was different. It had no proof of concept or MVP, just an idea from my personal research from 2012.


* 2016 - I think the startup boom began in 2016 and maxed out in 2017. I saw a lot of Singapore startups **outsourcing** their work to Vietnam and some American and Australian startups outsourcing to the Philippines.

* 2017 - The Philippines begins its national startup program as **QBO**. The **bitcoin boom** created a temporary blockchain startup boom, usually using Ethereum. Softbank's **Vision Fund** becomes the biggest in the world to invest in mature startups. **Fintech** becomes a buzzword.

* 2018 - The **crash of bitcoin** caused the blockchain startup boom to die down, leaving only the most determined blockchain startups alive. By now, most incubators realize that incubating a business takes time and forcing it to ‘accelerate’ by throwing money at it is an **unsustainable idea**. Malaysia tones down its MAGIC program (https://www.dealstreetasia.com/stories/malaysia-magic-ceo-ashran-ghazi-to-step-down-111712/) to save money.

