---
title: "Raffling Off Food Waste"
image: "/graphics/pointcard2024.jpg"
date: 2024-10-17
author: Juan
draft: true
description: "We updated the layout of our pointcards"
icon: Juan
---


A few days ago, I got a message from Food Rescue PH that some food was available for rescue. The food was not much, so I decided to distribute the food through a raffle, using our points cards as the record-keeping tool.

The people line up and get a piece of paper with the name of the food item. 

They claim the item by signing a card. The more items they get, the more entries in their card. 

In this way, we know exactly who gets what, so that food can be distributed more fairly. This is from observing that poor people get jealous when others get better donated goods.  

A useful change was to put the names of the giver and receiver on one side of the card with the points. This saves a few milliseconds from flipping the card and also allowing all relevant data to be on one side for easier scanning into the computer.

Even though the distribution was small, it took 5 parties: the donor, the NGO that interfaced with the donor, the poor-community association, the NGO that interfaced with the poor-community association, and the points provider which we call the 'points banker'.

That 5-party system is what we will eventually use for B2B moneyless payments when the current inflation mutates into a prolonged stagflation. 

This model needs 3 cards, as "bridges", to transmit the value from Employee A1 to Employee B1: one for Employee A1 to Company A Owner, one for Company A Owner to Company B Owner, one for Company B Owner to Employee B1. This can be done offline through paper cards, or online through an app.

This is different from the centralized moneyless Inca system which seemed to use just 1 bridge instead of 3.
