---
title: "Galaxiv Development"
image: "/graphics/galaxiv.jpg"
date: 2025-08-06
description: "We started development of our Galaxiv Game"
showdate: true
draft: true
icon: Juan
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---


We started development of our Galaxiv Game which is in javascript using Phaser js. This is inspired by Sid Meier's Civilization.

{{< i s="/graphics/galaxiv.jpg" a="Galaxiv" >}}


## The Backstory

I made a model in 2012 that predicted a string of crises sparking in 2019 being felt by 2020, just as the 2008 Financial Crisis was preceded by a 2007 Credit Crunch. 

The 2020 pandemic, 2021 Inflation, 2022 Ukraine War, 2023 Gaza War fulfilled that prediction. So by 2023, we made a rule to really have faith to follow the model as if by clockwork. 

The model predicted a trade war by 2025 and so we pitched [Pool Clearing](/trisactions/pool/) in 2024. 

But of course, no one really believed in it. 

And so we shelved the real-world app and instead used its model for a game that we can pattern along the current trade war. 

In this way, we can improve our understanding of human feelings for resources. This learning will then be applied to the currently running Pantrpoints systems, *without* Pool Clearing. 


## The Game

It merges the moneyless system of Supereconomics (Pantrypoints) with the technologies proposed by Material Superphysics, such as ship levitation and interstellar ship teleportation. 

In the future when zero-point (spacetime) energy is discovered and harnessed, humans will no longer be as bound to material wealth. 

This is because there's a lot more energy, resources, and pleasures outside Earth. 

This is similar to the internet making so many movies available online that no one needs to accumulate or hoard VHS or laserdisc movies in their house.
- Instead of the **quantity** of movie discs or tapes owned, the importance shifts to the **quality** of movies watched within a 24 hour period. 
- This is also why we invent [Qualimath](https://www.superphysics.org/superphysics/principles/chapter-07/) as alternative to quantitative mathematics. 


It will have 2 modes:

1. Single player

You start from the solar system and expand your species to the entire Milky Way or make allies with a majority of aliens.  

2. Multiplayer 

You start from a random star and expand your way against other players on other stars. 


The game has 2 parts:

1. Star-colony management

This uses Supereconomics to balance the population with productivity and resources. Pool Clearing is done between stars, as each star imports and exports resources to augment what it lacks and to share its excess. 

2. Ship management

This uses Material Superphysics to implement future technologies onto ships to make them faster or larger and more efficient with energy use. Logistics technology is the limiting factor in Pool Clearing and so some resources should be allotted to improving logistics speed and efficiency and safety. 

