---
title: "Pantrypoints Songs"
image: "/photos/tala.jpg"
date: 2026-02-25
description: "We made songs for Pantrypoints"
showdate: true
icon: Juan
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---



I intially began Pantrypoints as SORA as an anti-capitalist research proposal for my Japanese scholarship application in 2009 as a solution to the 2008 Financial Crisis. 

But I was not accepted and so I moved to socialist Vietnam in 2011. 

My startup ideation was accepted by Vietnam Silicon Valley (VSV) in 2016. I was surprised that the head of VSV, MS. Thach Le Anh, looked up to Adam Smith, the theoretical basis of Pantrypoints.

We then switched to MVP phase in 2017 under IT Park where we used our moneyless sytem to get free office space in exchange for teaching English to IT Park students. 

We realized it could scale only if the moral standard was much higher -- if people are less selfish and had the virtue of reciprocity or fellow feeling. 

This is consistent with *The Wealth of Nations* being based on *The Theory of Moral Sentiments*, and is opposite of the selfish-interest morals of Modern Economics. 

So we paused the development of Pantrypoints, focusing instead on its science called Supereconomics, until we could find a way to drive the proper morality. 

This became a reality when generative AI came out. 

This allowed us to make AI music videos promoting a moral economic system when Veo, Nano Banana, and AI music generation came out last year. 


### "Points Valuation" introduces the points system which is based on grains (Adam Smith used wheat)

{{< youtube uoEF6at96qA >}}


### "A World Without Money" explains how money causes crises

{{< youtube liPXiWDtkvU >}}


### "The Four Laws of Value" introduces the Four Laws of Value and the Four Kinds of Prices

{{< youtube kmxZSPlF3Is >}}

### "The Invisible Hand of Dharma" explains that the Invisible Hand refers to Dharma

{{< youtube uGrGMYf7k7Y >}}


### "The Time Value of Life" explains how the Time Value of Money causes problems which are solved by the Time Value of Life via Points Valuation

{{< youtube uGrGMYf7k7Y >}}


### "The Time Value of Life" explains how the Time Value of Money causes problems which are solved by the Time Value of Life via Points Valuation

{{< youtube VSZ1qJLVNEc >}}


### "Pantrypoints Paradise" introduces the moneyless system

{{< youtube h7g5PAbKlYk >}}


